hey yo what is up guys karma medic here
and welcome back to another dose a
second-year medical student at King's
College London and I make these videos
once a week to try and help you guys
throughout the application process I'm
coming to you live from Amman Jordan the
big J Oh I'm here to visit my family
that I haven't seen in quite a long time
and I'm also gonna be sorting out some
military stuff renewing my passport my
national ID card etc etc we're currently
on our Christmas break at kacl and
second year of medical school just over
the last two days I've gotten about 10
messages from people telling me that
they've received offers for King's
College London medicine I can't believe
it that's so exciting well done to all
you guys congratulations
I'm sure you guys smashed the interview
if you've been getting your offers and
to everybody else waiting for an offer
half patients have have faith it's a bit
of a process and as long as you haven't
heard back from the medical school
you're still in the running they're
still considering your application so
don't give up have some faith be patient
and hopefully more offers come through
if you do get offers please do let me
know it's so cool to be able to follow
you guys through the journey from
studying for the UK cat and the Bema
sending in your applications getting
interviews and now actually receiving
offers that's something that really
keeps me going keeps me motivated to
make these videos so if you guys do
receive any offers please do let me know
see ya guys thought I'd record a video
here as well I'm coming to you with my
full scruffy beard some traditional
Arabic tea and also my traditional hour
robe probably looking like a big fat
black bear right now so bear with me as
we get through this MMI video so today
the topic that I want to cover is how do
you deal with stress or how do you cope
with nerves or stress at an MMI
interview or before a big presentation
or anything like that I know I am one
hell of a stressful person when it comes
to giving presentations or doing
interviews or anything like that so I
want to talk to you guys a little bit
about my experience how I tend to deal
with stress how I cope with it some tips
and tricks that you guys can use before
your MMI interviews as well and without
further adue in this very traditional
arab clothing let's get right into the
video all right so let me take you guys
back to 2013 when I was applying to
medical school for the first time out of
Athens Greece and I was applying to the
UK for a medical school I applied to
cambridge edinburgh kings and imperial
all the top schools that i could think
of at the time ended up getting rejected
from every
but I got an interview at Cambridge I
didn't really know what to do I didn't
know how to prepare for interviews I
didn't know how to get myself ready I
didn't know what kinds of questions I
might be asked so basically what I did
was just studied my biology textbook
which in retrospect was a horrible idea
obviously the interviews about a lot
more than just your knowledge of biology
but anyway that's why I did because I
didn't know what I was doing and I ended
up bombing the interview but the key
point is that I didn't bomb the
interview because I studied the wrong
things although it definitely wasn't the
best thing to do the reason that I
bombed the interview is because of my
stress and my nerves I'm somebody who's
very psychosomatic so my brain effects
my body if I'm feeling anxious or if I'm
feeling stressed out then I start to
sweat I start to shake my stomach starts
to feel uncomfortable I just get a
full-on reaction to feeling stressed out
as do a lot of other people I'm sure so
the point of this video is to try and
learn from my mistakes that that doesn't
happen to you guys in your interviews
quicks I know about the Cambridge
interview one of the first questions
that they asked me was to explain to
them how blood flows through the heart
of course that's something super simple
that's something that I knew very very
well at the time but I just couldn't get
the words out of my mouth I physically
couldn't explain how blood flows through
the heart even though I knew it off my
heart backwards so so well but I was
just so stressed I was like shaking I
was sweating I couldn't think of the
heart I couldn't picture in my head all
I could focus on was how embarrassing
the situation was and that really
screwed up my interview experience ended
up going really really badly and of
course I didn't get an offer feel like
I've rambled on a little bit too much
let's get right into this video about
how to cope with stress before an
interview and how to deal with your
nerves so the very first thing that I
want to say and what to me I honestly
think it's the most important is that
you want to be prepared before you go to
your interview you want to know what
kinds of questions are gonna be asked
you want to know what's probably gonna
come up and actually interestingly
enough I got a message from one of my
followers on Instagram I think it was
for Sheffield saying that they had sent
them the questions that were going to
come up on them and in my interview and
they did that so that students wouldn't
have a prepared answer they would be
able to see the question really think
about what it is the motivates them to
do medicine or what it is that they
liked about their work experience and
give that answer in the interview so I
thought that was really interesting and
I think medical schools will probably be
moving towards that in the future
letting their students see the question
so that they don't just prepare around
and ready-made answers anyway I keep on
rambling
to the tips so the first thing is to be
prepared if you google like King's
College London medical school interview
questions or imperial medical questions
or whatever you will get a list of
questions that are very likely to come
up in your interview for example why do
you want to be a doctor why do you want
to study medicine what about this
medical school makes you want to be here
makes you want to apply here tell me
about your work experience these
questions are almost guaranteed to be
asked at your interview so you better
have a really good answer you better
have thought about it in detail and you
better practice saying that answer out
loud and you better be ready to give
that answer in an interview it may sound
cheesy but feeling confident in your
ability to answer questions is one of
the most important things you want to
know your main stories off my heart you
want to know your reflections off my
heart you want to know the main points
that you took away from each of your
work experiences you want to be able to
describe those and share those in vivid
detail in a way that is concise but
important to the interviewer so that
they know what it is that makes you a
good medical school candidate and I've
made several videos on this topic about
how to prepare for medical school
interviews about finding the questions
writing out your answers
practicing talking them out loud I'll
link them in the description somewhere
here on the screen definitely watch
those definitely do your preparation
it's super important before my King's
College London interview I had prepared
for all of my Canadian interview exams I
had also done and prepared for the
Bristol medical school interview so when
my case he'll interview came around I
honestly thought ready to answer any
question I was gonna get thrown at me
and in fact every question that they
asked me at the KCl interview I had done
some variation of I had already answered
that question I had already said it out
loud so I knew exactly what I wanted to
say I was just a matter of going through
the stations and saying it out loud
anyway so preparation is number one make
sure you prepare number two and I say
this to everyone who sends me messages
on Instagram saying master of karma
medic you know what I do I'm really
really stressed my interviews tomorrow I
always say the same thing and I say well
I say two things but the first thing is
make sure that you try and treat the
interview as a casual conversation as
opposed to like a formal interrogation
remember that the interviewer is they
just want to know more about you they
want to know who you are
why you are such a great candidate why
you're going to be a good addition to
their medical
school they just they really when it
comes down to it they just want to learn
more about you so if you take the
process a little bit more casually if
you treat it as a conversation and you
loosen up a little bit then you're
really gonna have an easier time giving
across that information and you're gonna
create better rapport with the
interviewer they're gonna think more
nice things about you you're gonna be
able to tell them more about yourself
and it's just gonna go a lot better also
a quick side note you are definitely
going to loosen up as the stations go by
I remember in my first station I was
still really nervous I was like shaking
a little bit
but then by the last station I had a
much more relaxed posture I was sitting
back talking to the interviewer we were
smiling laughing we even told some jokes
at the end when we ran out of time I
know we're gonna have time when we
finished all the questions that they
wanted to ask me at that station so
really you do loosen up over time and
everything just becomes better tip
number three is the evening or the
afternoon the day before your actual
interview and the morning of just really
don't do anything don't study don't cram
don't go over the stories again in your
head just take it easy relax at this
point you've probably been studying or
preparing for like a week or two maybe
even more you've done a lot of work and
if you keep on studying till the last
second I know at least for me that
really stresses me out and that makes me
confused and it makes me self-doubt and
think that I'm not prepared enough so
really just the day before you know take
it off what's your favorite movie what's
your favorite YouTube videos what's your
favorite or listen to your favorite book
listen to music whatever it is just keep
yourself calm relax yourself don't put
any additional stress on yourself or
right before the interview at this point
you know everything that you're gonna
know and you just have to do your best
if you do wake up in the morning and you
know that there's a couple of things you
want to quickly brush over to refresh
your memory or keep them nice and close
to the forefront of your mind that's
totally fine obviously like make sure
you cover the things that you want to
cover if that's what makes you
comfortable but what I'm trying to say
is don't crime or stress really hard the
night before or the morning off it's
better to just take it easy and keep
yourself your mind and your body calm
like I mentioned before I'm very much
like a sweaty person and a shaky person
I get quite nervous around interviews
formal presentations and anything like
that and I want to touch on that a
little bit so I'm someone who gets like
really red in the face I get really
sweaty etc etc been over this a million
times I found that the best way to cope
with not to deal with that foreign
interview situation is just to fully
acknowledge that that is what is going
on if when I was in
interview I started sweating I knew that
I was red in the face because I could
feel the heat on my cheeks but now it
just make me way more stressed out I
would start focusing on the fact of what
my appearance is what I'm looking like
instead of the actual content that I'm
trying to deliver it so I knew that
there was no way of me getting around
this if I'm gonna have an interview I'm
going to get red in the face so I just
acknowledged it I came to terms with
that fact and I realized that the
interviewers know that this is gonna
happen to a lot of students and they
don't care they care about what's coming
out of your mouth actual content and
substance that you're delivering to them
they don't care if you get red in the
face or if you're sweaty
or if your voice is a little bit shaky
those are fine interviewers know that
students aren't going to be nervous and
it's okay so just coming to terms coming
to grips or whatever the phrase is with
the fact that I was gonna get red in the
face just made me feel a lot better
about the whole situation tip number
five that I want to cover it's exercise
now exercise for me has been a great
great great stress reliever over my
university years I understand that not
everyone wants to exercise and different
people have different forms of exercise
that they like but if you enjoy going to
the gym if you enjoy going for a run
or even just doing like pull-ups
push-ups or sit-ups in your home I find
that really helps get rid of stress it
takes all of the like mental stress that
you have in your body and it lets out in
a physical way kind of sounds stupid and
cheesy but it really really works okay
now on the day of the actual interview
if you're able to bring a friend or a
family member or a significant other I
find that I can actually really really
help of course it depends on the person
but if you're someone who feels like you
might be more comfortable with someone
else then just do it ask someone to come
ask them to do a favor for you and to
come with you I know that before my
interview for Bristol my girlfriend came
with me and before my interview for at
King's College London I had my sister
come with me and just for those like 20
minutes half an hour before the actual
interview having someone to talk to who
you're familiar with who you are
comfortable with can really really help
ease your nerves if you don't have
someone with you or if that's something
that you don't prefer then I would
definitely recommend just listening to
some music walking around looks like my
camera stopped recording halfway through
that video think what I was talking
about was that if you can bring a
significant other a family member or a
friend with you to the interview then
you should go for it don't feel shy or
feel embarrassed about asking someone to
come with you or having someone
accompany when you're there even if it's
your mom your dad your sister whatever
it is that makes you feel comfortable if
you think that you're gonna be able to
relax a little bit more if you have
someone to talk to about random things
just to calm your mind and ease yourself
before the interview then just do it the
most important thing is that you feel
best prepared for the interview setting
my next step is slightly related to the
previous one and it's not when you are
waiting to go in for the actual
interview when you're there sitting with
all of the other candidates if you're
someone who feels like you don't want to
make small talk or you don't want to
talk to anyone else in the room then
don't don't feel obliged to talk to
other interviewees or any people they're
part of the administration or anything
like that if you want to just listen to
your music listen to your audiobook or
just stare at the wall and you do you
don't feel obliged to make small talk or
anything like that I know that it
definitely helped me I didn't mind
making conversation with anyone who is
there just sort of helped me get my mind
off of what was happening and make me
forget that I'm actually about to do one
of the most important interviews of my
life and but you know for some people
that doesn't work and they just want
their own alone time so if if you are
that person don't feel obliged to talk
to anyone else give yourself some space
be by yourself and try and calm yourself
down now another tip that I want to
touch upon is about how you dress and I
don't want to talk about this tip
because you need to dress a certain way
or you need to be super super formal or
smart casual business casual whatever
the reason that I want to talk about a
dress is that you want to feel confident
in whatever it is that you are wearing
if you're wearing something that you
feel you look a little bit odd in or is
uncomfortable then that's something that
you might be thinking about throughout
the interview process and that's the
last thing that you want on your mind
whatever it is that you decide to wear
to the interview make sure that it's
something that you feel confident in I
know for me when I went to that
interview it was like I was wearing one
of the first suits that I ever worn and
I thought I looked so good I felt so
confident I was really happy with the
color that I was happy with the tie I
was happy with my shoes and that really
gave me a lot of confidence and me it
made me not have to worry about and
think about what it is that I was
wearing and I could focus on just
delivering my information on my content
and a good way to the interviewers but
just make sure that whatever it is that
you do decide to go in you'll feel
comfortable in lastly I know you've
probably heard this a million times
before but I'm just gonna say because it
is really important it's not once you
finish one interview station then
it doesn't really matter how badly went
or how good it went you just need to
forget about it and focus on the next
station for one of my interviews one of
the station's I totally messed it up I
had no idea what I was doing I had no
idea what I was talking about I was just
trying to BS my way through it and last
out the five or six or seven minutes
whatever it was but when it was finished
I knew I had completely screwed up that
station but if you have seven or eight
or nine or ten stations it doesn't
matter if you've screwed up one of those
stations you just need to focus on the
next ones because no interviewers talk
to each other about that no one else
knows what happened it's just you so if
you can get past that mental block put
what happened behind you and move on to
the next station that's gonna help you a
lot in succeeding in the next ones
alright guys and I think that's all the
tips that I wanted to cover and tell you
guys I'm only here in Jordan for a
couple more days and then I'm gonna fly
to Greece where my family is so we can
spend New Year's together I'm also gonna
be seeing a lot of my friends from high
school they're really looking forward to
it and I'm actually got a progress test
when I get back to England
early in January which is what I should
be studying for right now instead of
making this video that's what I'm gonna
do after I finish this video we're gonna
go study for progress test number two
I'll show you guys where I'm currently
studying right now actually I just made
a table of different induction agents
and opioids kind of looks like this I
don't know how clearly you can see that
on the screen different drugs mode of
action use pharmacokinetics
pharmacodynamics different drugs in the
accident and emergency room self-harm
suicide delirium inpatients all kinds of
really interesting stuff that you will
all get to do once you're in medical
school anyway I've rambled a bunch in
this video that's it for me I'll see you
guys in the next one
keep telling me if you're getting offers
nothing makes me happier than to hit on
news if you want to ask me any questions
or communicate with me or whatever
follow me on Instagram if this video has
helped you please do leave a like on
this video and subscribe to my channel
if you want to see more videos from me
and ya guys thank you so much for
watching and I'll see you in the next
video peace
you